Amend the governance document (#10137)
Homebrew/brew: docs/Homebrew-Governance.md

## 3. General Meetings of Members

> 1. A general meeting of the members may be called by either an ordinary resolution of the PLC or a majority of the entire membership. The membership must be given at least three weeks notice of a general meeting.

Reviewer: Is "a majority of the entire membership" the same as "an ordinary resolution of the entire membership"?

We use both "majority vote" and "ordinary resolution" in this document. If there's a difference, it's not very clear to me what it is.

Even if there's a difference, I'm not sure how consistent we're being in this document. For example, why is a resolution needed to remove a PLC member a "majority vote" is needed for the PLC to add a new member?

For example, the PLC can remove a TSC member with an "ordinary resolution" (7.5) but can add a new member with a "majority vote" (2.1). To me, those two situations seem similar enough to warrant the same procedure. It feels to me like we're just being inconsistent, so I recommend either clarifying the difference or being more consistent throughout the document.

Reviewer 2: 👍 for making the terms consistent throughout the document.

Reviewer 3: IANAL, but my understanding is that "ordinary resolution" typically refers to a formal document (the "resolution") laying out the matter to be voted on, and is passed by a majority vote. "Survivor" tribal councils go by majority vote, not ordinary resolutions.

Therefore:
> A general meeting of the members may be called by either an ordinary resolution of the PLC or a majority of the entire membership.

is perfectly correct _if_ the PLC actually creates an official document (that can be archived for posterity) calling for the meeting, then votes on it. I imagine the alternative would be executed along the lines of "Hi everyone, we're proposing a GM at <timestamp>, you OK with that?"

Reviewer 3: > For example, why is a resolution needed to remove a PLC member a "majority vote" is needed for the PLC to add a new member?

Perhaps because forcibly terminating membership is a serious matter that requires extra care and formality.

Reviewer: That distinction makes sense. I would think, though, that most things that are voted on are based on a formal document. Maybe that's a PR (like this) or a message in Slack, or something else. I guess I also don't know what counts as "formula" also. This coming meeting will be my first GM so I haven't actually experienced this.

As to your example, I would say that either that should count as "formal enough" if it's a message in slack that can be referenced in the future or we don't do those kinds of informal votes. I'm not PLC or a lawyer, or course.

I guess my point is that it doesn't feel like the actions that use "majority vote" are any less official or significantly different from those that use "ordinary resolution." Maybe someone who's been to one before can clarify that for me (@sjackman maybe you can weigh in?)

Author: >> A majority of the entire membership of the PLC is required to pass an ordinary resolution.

>  Is it necessary to include this given the new definition for an "ordinary resolution"?

Yes, because it requires a majority of the _entire_ membership of the PLC, rather than a majority of the votes cast, which is the usual case for an ordinary resolution.

Author: > We use both "majority vote" and "ordinary resolution" in this document. If there's a difference, it's not very clear to me what it is.

There is no difference. I've changed "majority vote" to "ordinary resolution", except for elections, which are not themselves a resolution.

Author: > Two comments about this. First, doesn't this belong in section 4 ("Project Leadership Committee") rather than section 5 ("Meetings of the Project Leadership Committee")? I don't think it's not really about meetings. This isn't directly related to the other changes in this PR so it may not be appropriate here.

🤷‍♂️ The dispute would be settled by a resolution of the PLC, so my guess is that's why it's here in meetings of the PLC.

> Second, should the "with compromise" phrase that was added to item 7.3 (which is essentially the TSC equivalent of 5.6) be added here as well?

👍 I've added "with compromised".

Reviewer: Thanks, @sjackman!

In my mind, moving item 5.6 to section 4 makes more sense, but I don't feel strongly about it. If desired, I can make a PR in the governance repo explaining my reasoning. Otherwise, I'm happy to leave it as is.

## 6. Project Leader

> 1. The Project Leader will represent Homebrew publicly, manage all day-to-day technical decisions and resolve disputes related to the operation of Homebrew between maintainers, members, other contributors and users.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. The Project Leader will represent Homebrew publicly, manage all day-to-day technical decisions, and resolve disputes related to the operation of Homebrew between maintainers, members, other contributors, and users.
```

2. The Project Leader will be elected annually by a majority vote of Homebrew members. The PLC will nominate at least one candidate for Project Leader. Any member may nominate a candidate, or self-nominate. Nominations must be announced to the membership three weeks before the AGM.

3. Any vacancy of the Project Leader will be filled by appointment of the PLC.

4. The Project Leader may not be a member of the PLC.

5. A technical decision of the Project Leader may be overruled by an ordinary resolution of the TSC.

> 6. A non-technical decision of the Project Leader may be overruled by an ordinary resolution of the PLC.

Reviewer 5: Should there be a definition of what a technical decision/matter/question/dispute is? For instance, what if there were a dispute over whether an issue is technical?

Reviewer 6: > For instance, what if there were a dispute over whether an issue is technical?

That would be a highly specific case, in that it would need to be a decision made by the Project Leader that either the PLC or TSC would want to overrule but the other committee wouldn’t want to (because if both agree, the distinction wouldn’t matter).

That seems unlikely to me, and that if it ever happened we could revert to a vote by all maintainers on if the dispute is of a technical nature or not, at which point we’d be able to use that experience to build a proper definition which fit Homebrew.

Reviewer 5: >That would be a highly specific case

This is true for items 6.5 and 6.6. Note, however, that TSC jurisdiction over technical issues is relevant not only for decisions made by the Project Leader but also for those between members. See 7.1 and 7.3 below.

7. The Project Leader may be removed from the position by a special resolution of the membership.

## 7. Technical Steering Committee

1. The TSC has the authority to decide on any technical matter, including technical disputes between Homebrew members.

> 2. The PLC will appoint between three and five members to the TSC. The Project Leader must be one of these appointees. After the 2021 AGM, PLC members should not be any of these appointees. Appointed TSC members will serve a term of one year or until the member's successor is appointed.

Reviewer 7: I already commented on this before: Given the different tasks of the PLC and TSC, I don't see why one cannot serve on both. If we want to avoid the conflict of interest of PLC members appointing themselves to the TLC, I suggest:

```suggestion
2. The TSC consists of five members. Committee members are elected by majority vote of Homebrew members. Each TSC member will serve a term of one year or until the member's successor is elected. Any sudden vacancy in the TSC will be filled by the usual procedure for electing TSC members at the next general meeting, typically the next AGM.
```

Reviewer 5: I think the idea is that the PLC and TSC should be empowered to disagree with each other. That gets kinda awkward if one is on both.

Reviewer 7: The duties of the PLC and TSC don't overlap so I'm not sure in what scenario they would disagree with each other.

Reviewer 5: In practice currently, perhaps. But the roles and responsibilities of the PLC and TSC aren't really clearly defined here, so there's no guarantee that they'd stay that way.

That said, I'm not sure non-overlapping duties necessarily preclude disagreement either. Think of, for instance, different branches of government, or, say, management vs the board of directors in a corporation.

Reviewer 8: This still allows members to be in both groups. It just expresses a preference for this not to be the case. This is why it uses "should" instead of "must".
If there is a good reason for a member to occupy two seats in Homebrew's governance we can still pick that option.

Reviewer 9: I feel like there should not be overlap between PLC and TSC because we have enough maintainers to avoid people needing to do both and they are pretty different roles.
